Welcome to data science
methodology overview.
After watching this video,
you'll be able to describe
the term methodology,
relate methodology
to data science and
John Rollins's contributions
to data methodology,
identify the 10 stages of
standard data methodology and
categorize the questions for
10 stages of standard
data methodology.
Data science is an
influential domain
that combined
statistical analysis,
technological expertise,
and domain knowledge
to extract valuable insights
from extensive data sets.
However, despite the
recent increase in
computing power and
easier access to data,
we often don't understand
the questions being
asked or know
how to apply the data correctly
to address the problem at hand.
Using a methodology helps
resolve those issues.
What is a methodology?
A methodology is a
system of methods
used in a particular
area of study.
A methodology is a
guideline for the decisions
researchers must make during
the scientific process.
In the context of data science,
data science methodology is
a structured
approach that guides
data scientists and solving
complex problems and making
data-driven decisions.
Data science methodology
also includes
data collection forms,
measurement strategies,
and comparisons of
data analysis methods
relative to different research
goals and situations.
Using a methodology provides
the practical guidance needed to
conduct scientific
research efficiently.
There's often a
temptation to bypass
methodology and jump
directly to solutions.
However, jumping to
solutions hinders
our best intentions
for solving problems.
Next, let's explore
methodology as it
relates to data science.
The data science
methodology discussed in
this course is a methodology
outlined by John Rollins,
a seasoned IBM Senior
Data Scientist.
This course is built
on his professional
experience and insights into
the importance of
following a methodology
for successful data
science outcomes.
As a general methodology,
data science
methodology consists
of the following 10 stages.
Business understanding,
analytic approach,
data requirements,
data collection,
data understanding,
data preparation,
modeling, evaluation,
deployment, and feedback.
Asking questions
is the cornerstone
of success in data science.
Questions drive every stage
of data science methodology.
Data science methodology
aims to answer
the following 10
basic questions which
align with the data
methodology questions.
These first two questions
help you define
the issue and determine
what approach to use.
You'll ask, what is
the problem that you're
trying to solve?
How can you use data to
answer the question?
You'll use the next
four questions to
help you get organized
around the data.
You'll ask, what data do you
need to answer the question,
where's the data source from,
and how will you
receive the data?
Does the data you collect
represent the problem
to be solved and
what additional
work is required to
manipulate and work
with the data?
Then you'll use these final
four questions to validate
your approach and final
design for ongoing analysis.
You'll ask, when you apply
data visualizations,
do you see answers that
address the business problem?
Does the data model answer
the initial business question
or must you adjust the data?
Can you put the
model into practice?
Can you get constructive
feedback from the data
and the stakeholder to answer
the business question?
In this video, you learned
that data science methodology
guides data scientists in
solving complex
problems with data.
A methodology also includes
data collection forms,
measurement strategies,
and comparisons of
data analysis methods
relative to different research
goals and situations.
As a general science
methodology,
data methodology consists
of the following 10 stages.
Business understanding,
analytic approach,
data requirements,
data collection,
data understanding,
data preparation,
modeling, evaluation,
deployment, and feedback.
The 10 questions aligned with
defining the business issue,
determining an approach,
organizing your data,
and validating your approach
for the final data design.